README.md, before:

# Defective Interfering Particle Deletion Site Analyzer (DIP-DSA)

This application allows the user to investigate datasets that include Defective
Interfering Particles. 

## How to set up

As a first step the right R version (3.6.3) and some additional packages need to be 
installed. These libraries are listed here:

- shiny 1.7.2
- shinydashboard 0.7.2
- ggplot2 3.3.6
- DT 0.24
- plotly 4.10.0
- Biostrings 2.54.0
- hash 2.2.6.2
- jsonlite 1.8.2
- comprehenr 0.6.10

For support on the installation of specific libraries please use the original
documentation of the corresponding library.

### Adding data

To have access to the predefined datasets the user has to download them
[here](https://ecosia.de "data source").
After the download has finished move the ```data``` folder to the root folder of the
repository. The root folder should look like this afterwards:

```
+DIP-DSA
|
+--README.md
+--run_DIP-DSA_local.sh
+--setup_script.sh
+--data/
+--src/
```

### Running the app

To run the application locally type the following command into the commandline.

```
bash run_DIP-DSA_local.sh
```

It will automatically open the application on http://localhost:1234

### Example dataset

|                 | Column1 | Column2  | Column3 | Column4      |
|-----------------|---------|----------|---------|--------------|
| header names    | Segment                                              | Start                               |End                                | NGS_read_count                                                 |
| column data type| character                                            | integer                             | integer                           | integer                                                        |
| description     | Name of the segment that the DI RNA is comming from  | Start position of the deletion site | End position of the deletion site | Number of counts in the NGS data of the specific DI RNA sample |

Commit message:

Added explanation to example dataset table

README.md, after:

# Defective Interfering Particle Deletion Site Analyzer (DIP-DSA)

This application allows the user to investigate datasets that include Defective
Interfering Particles. 

## How to set up

As a first step the right R version (3.6.3) and some additional packages need to be 
installed. These libraries are listed here:

- shiny 1.7.2
- shinydashboard 0.7.2
- ggplot2 3.3.6
- DT 0.24
- plotly 4.10.0
- Biostrings 2.54.0
- hash 2.2.6.2
- jsonlite 1.8.2
- comprehenr 0.6.10

For support on the installation of specific libraries please use the original
documentation of the corresponding library.

### Adding data

To have access to the predefined datasets the user has to download them
[here](https://ecosia.de "data source").
After the download has finished move the ```data``` folder to the root folder of the
repository. The root folder should look like this afterwards:

```
+DIP-DSA
|
+--README.md
+--run_DIP-DSA_local.sh
+--setup_script.sh
+--data/
+--src/
```

### Running the app

To run the application locally type the following command into the commandline.

```
bash run_DIP-DSA_local.sh
```

It will automatically open the application on http://localhost:1234

### Example dataset

When uploading a custom data set the user has to provide the data in a specific
format. It is a csv file with four columns. The order correct ordering of the
columns is crucial! For more information about the content see the following
table:

|                 | Column1 | Column2  | Column3 | Column4      |
|-----------------|---------|----------|---------|--------------|
| header names    | Segment                                              | Start                               |End                                | NGS_read_count                                                 |
| column data type| character                                            | integer                             | integer                           | integer                                                        |
| description     | Name of the segment that the DI RNA is comming from  | Start position of the deletion site | End position of the deletion site | Number of counts in the NGS data of the specific DI RNA sample |
